# State and Props

## [React Lifecycle](https://medium.com/@joshuablankenshipnola/react-component-lifecycle-events-cb77e670a093)

1. Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

Based on the diagram it looks like *render* will happen first, regardless of whether or not we are mounting or unmounting. 

2. What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

The first thing that will happen in the lifecycle of react is calling the constructor.

3. Put the following things in the order that they happen: componentDidMount, render, constructor, componentWillUnmount, React Updates

- constructor
- render
- React Updates
- componentDidMount
- componentWillUnmount

4. What does componentDidMount do?

Method that is invoked right after a component is mounted. The reading suggests that anything that needs to be loaded should happen here.

## React State vs Props

1. What types of things can you pass in the props?

Think of it like arguments to a function. We pass similar things to props. What we want to initialize our component to. Also for displaying set items like titles or subtitles.

2. What is the big difference between props and state?

State is on the inside of a component while props are outside a component and passed in. State can be updated within the component.

3. When do we re-render our application?

We re-render our application when we change the state. Props do not re-render. Usually a state stored somewhere else that sends props to the component.

4. What are some examples of things that we could store in state?

State need to be able to update things with user input. For example, a user form that will store inputted data from the user. If handling data only within the component, then use state.

## Things I want to know more about

I would like to understand more about relationship between the three phases of the React lifecycle (Mounting, Updating, and Unmounting). It looks like certain portions, like render or react updates happen in both mounting and updating, while shouldComponentUpdate is just in Updating.

I'm guessing that mounting is initialized only using a constructor, while the diagram shows that updating can happen by affecting the props or state, or using another function forceUpdate().