# Introduction to React and Components

## [Component Based Architecture](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_architecture_design/component_based_architecture.htm)

### What is a component?

> "A component is a modular, portable, replaceable, and reusable set of well-defined functionality that encapsulates its implementation and exporting it as a higher-level interface."

In my own words it sounds like a component is a piece of software than can be deployed independing of its setting. Likely leads to less duplication of efforts and more standardization across a series of web pages.

### What are the charactistics of a component?

1. Reusability
2. Replaceable
3. Not Context Specific
4. Extensible
5. Encapsulated
6. Independent

### What are the advantages of using component based architecture?

It seems that a big part of Component Based Architecture is to have individual components that can be used almost independently. These features ensure that components can be reused in different settings.

- Ease of deployment
- Reduced cost
- Ease of development
- Reusable
- Modification of technical complexity
- Reliability
- System maintenance and evolution
- Independent

A couple of things that stand out from this list: standardization and predictability are really nice to have especially when working with so many engineers.

## [What is Props and How to Use it in React](https://itnext.io/what-is-props-and-how-to-use-it-in-react-da307f500da0)

### What is props short for?

Props is short for *properties* and is a keyword in react.

### How are props used in React?

Props are used to pass data from one component to another (Eygi)

### What is the flow of props?

Props utilizes uni-directional flow, ie only flowing from parent to child.
Props data is also read only (or *immutable*). (Eygi)

### Steps to using Props

1. Define an attribute and its value(data)
2. Then pass it to child component(s) by using Props
3. Finally, render the Props Data (Eygi)
